Revamp Windows docs (#1820)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/os_guide/windows_ssh.rst

.. _windows_ssh:

Windows SSH
===========

> On newer Windows versions, you can use SSH to connect to a Windows host. This is an alternative connection option than :ref:`WinRM <windows_winrm>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On newer Windows versions, you can use SSH to connect to a Windows host. This is an alternative connection option to :ref:`WinRM <windows_winrm>`.
```

.. note::
    While Ansible could use the SSH connection plugin with Windows nodes since Ansible 2.8, official support was only added in version 2.18.

.. contents::
   :local:

SSH Setup
---------

> Microsoft provides an OpenSSH implementation with Windows since Windows Server 2019 as a Windows capability. It can also be installed through an upstream package under `Win32-OpenSSH <https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH>`_. Ansible officially only supports the OpenSSH implementation shipped with Windows and not the upstream package and must be a minimum version of ``7.9.0.0``. This effectively means official support starts with Windows Server 2022 as Server 2019 ships with ``7.7.2.1``. Using older Windows versions or the upstream package may work but is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft provides an OpenSSH implementation with Windows since Windows Server 2019 as a Windows capability. It can also be installed through an upstream package under `Win32-OpenSSH <https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH>`_. Ansible officially only supports the OpenSSH implementation shipped with Windows, not the upstream package. The OpenSSH version must be version ``7.9.0.0`` at a minimum. This effectively means official support starts with Windows Server 2022 because Server 2019 ships with version ``7.7.2.1``. Using older Windows versions or the upstream package might work but is not supported.
```

To install the OpenSSH feature on Windows Server 2022 and later, use the following PowerShell command:

.. code-block:: powershell

>     Get-WindowsCapability -Name OpenSSH.Server* -Online |

Reviewer: For a lot of these long code blocks you might find it useful to save them to the native file type and then reference them in the RST with the ` .. literalinclude::` directive.

This approach results in cleaner RST and means you can lint / check the native file more easily. For example, opening `fancypython.py` in most IDEs would automatically check the file for issues. If the content of that same Python file is embedded in RST, it's a lot more difficult to spot syntax errors etc. If users copy/paste code directly from the docs, they also get any code issues.

If you like, you can find an example of how to use literal includes in the getting started guide: https://github.com/ansible/ansible-documentation/blob/d38b6000c7bed9d8f429898439a50f6f5001352d/docs/docsite/rst/getting_started/get_started_playbook.rst?plain=1#L26

Author: Do we lint PowerShell files? I know the lexer works but I'm unsure if CI does a sanity check on them like Python files. There's a section with a longer Ansible playbook so I might use it for that one.

Reviewer: No, we don't link PowerShell files in CI. I just meant on the authoring side.

SSH Authentication
------------------
Win32-OpenSSH authentication with Windows is similar to SSH authentication on Unix/Linux hosts. While there are many authentication methods that can be used there are typically three used on Windows:

+----------+----------------+---------------------------+-----------------------+
| Option   | Local Accounts | Active Directory Accounts | Credential Delegation |
+==========+================+===========================+=======================+
| Key      | Yes            | Yes                       | No                    |
+----------+----------------+---------------------------+-----------------------+
| GSSAPI   | No             | Yes                       | Yes                   |
+----------+----------------+---------------------------+-----------------------+
| Password | Yes            | Yes                       | Yes                   |
+----------+----------------+---------------------------+-----------------------+

* Key authentication
* GSSAPI/Kerberos authentication

> * Password authentication

Reviewer: This list seems redundant with the table above it.

Author: Thanks, will remove it
